about.md, before:

---
layout: single
title: About
permalink: /about/
author_profile: false
---
<img align="right" src="https://github.com/ryanlevy.png" style="margin: 0px 10px;width:150px;border-radius:75%;" />
My name is **Ryan Levy** and I'm a Research Fellow at Flatiron Institute [CCQ](https://www.simonsfoundation.org/flatiron/center-for-computational-quantum-physics/). 
I received a BS in Physics from the University of Michigan in 2016, and received a PhD in physics under [Bryan Clark](http://clark.physics.illinois.edu/index.html) at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 2022.
I use computational and theoretical methods to study condensed matter and quantum computing, with a focus on novel algorithms.

This site is a slow assembly of information and tricks that I've come across in my studies. 


This site's logo <img src="{{ "/assets/images/site_logo.png" | absolute_url }}" style="width:1em;height:1em;margin-bottom:0.2em" /> 
is the matrix representation of a 3 site [Hubbard model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hubbard_model) in the \\(S_z\\) basis with \\(U/t=1\\) at 2/3 filling. See my [research page](/research/#quantum-monte-carlo) for more!
  
<br />
<br />

When I'm not doing physics, you'll find me drinking copious amounts of ☕&nbsp;tea, 🚲&nbsp;biking, 📚&nbsp;reading comic books, or 💻&nbsp;programming.
{: .notice}

Commit message:

update for thesis and new papers

about.md, after:

---
layout: single
title: About
permalink: /about/
author_profile: false
---
<img align="right" src="https://github.com/ryanlevy.png" style="margin: 0px 10px;width:150px;border-radius:75%;" />
My name is **Ryan Levy** and I'm a Research Fellow at Flatiron Institute [CCQ](https://www.simonsfoundation.org/flatiron/center-for-computational-quantum-physics/). 
I received a BS in Physics from the University of Michigan in 2016, and received a PhD in physics under [Bryan Clark](http://clark.physics.illinois.edu/index.html) at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 2022. My thesis was titled _[Algorithmic advancements in correlated electron and quantum information simulation](https://www.ideals.illinois.edu/items/126710)_

I use computational and theoretical methods to study condensed matter and quantum information, with a focus on novel algorithms.

This site is a slow assembly of information and tricks that I've come across in my studies. 


This site's logo <img src="{{ "/assets/images/site_logo.png" | absolute_url }}" style="width:1em;height:1em;margin-bottom:0.2em" /> 
is the matrix representation of a 3 site [Hubbard model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hubbard_model) in the \\(S_z\\) basis with \\(U/t=1\\) at 2/3 filling. See my [research page](/research/#quantum-monte-carlo) for more!
  
<br />
<br />

When I'm not doing physics, you'll find me drinking copious amounts of ☕&nbsp;tea, 🚲&nbsp;biking, 📚&nbsp;reading comic books, or 💻&nbsp;programming.
{: .notice}
